# VuePress Plugins
The *Vue Component Development Kit* also comes with several [VuePress](https://v1.vuepress.vuejs.org/guide/) plugins whose goal it is to document and showcase your components. There are currently two plugins.

1. **API Documentation Plugin:** This plugin makes it easy to render API documentation of your components. It works by parsing your `*.vue`–files.
2. **Component Demo Plugin:** This plugin allows you to render a component demo alonside the source code for the demo. It works by using the built-in syntax highlighing capabilities of *VuePress*.

You can use those two plugins alone or in combination in order to nicely document your components. Both plugins are using on this page in order to document every component.

## API Documentation Plugin
`@vue-cdk/vuepress-plugin-api` is a [VuePress](https://v1.vuepress.vuejs.org/guide/) plugin that generates API documentation for your single file components.

The plugin works by parsing your `*.vue`–files. After your `*.vue`–files have been parsed the plugin generates *VuePress*–pages.

::: tip Under the Hood
 Under the hood this plugin uses [vuese](https://github.com/shuidi-fed/vuese). Usually just adding normal comments (if at all) to your components is good enough. For the special cases vuese has a special comment syntax. You can try it out using [vuese Explorer](https://vuese.github.io/vuese-explorer/).
:::

### Installation
You install this plugin via NPM – just like any other VuePress–plugin:

```sh
$ npm install @vue-cdk/vuepress-plugin-api --save-dev
```

### Usage
Now you have to add `@vue-cdk/vuepress-plugin-api` to your `.vuepress/config.js`–file:

```js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    [
      '@vue-cdk/vuepress-plugin-api', {
        items: [
          {
            localPath: '/path/to/a/component/button.vue',
            path: 'api/button'
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```

#### `items`–Option
`items` must be an array of objects. Each item must have the following shape:

- `localPath`: Absolute path to a single file component
- `path`: Relative path for the API documentation for the correspoding component.

#### `renderer`–Option (optional)
After a `*.vue`–file has been parsed it is the renderers job to actually create a human readable API documentation page. You may specify a different renderer. The default one should be good enough for most scenarios though.

### Example
Any component API documentation on this site has been generated by using `@vue-cdk/vuepress-plugin-api`. For your convenience here are a few direct links for some documented components:

- [List](/api/list)
- [Infinite Scroll](/api/infinite-scroll)
- [Link](/api/link)
- [Popover](/api/popover)

## Component Demo Plugin
This plugin makes it easy to demo your components alongside with nicely rendered source code.

### Installation
You install this plugin via NPM – just like any other VuePress–plugin:

```sh
$ npm install @vue-cdk/vuepress-plugin-demo --save-dev
```

### Usage
Now you have to add `@vue-cdk/vuepress-plugin-demo` to your `.vuepress/config.js`–file:

```js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    [
      '@vue-cdk/vuepress-plugin-demo', {
        dir: 'path/to/your/examples' // should contain *.vue-files
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```

### Displaying a Demo
You can display a demo for your any of your examples by using the `Demo`–component:

```md
## Normal Button Demo

<Demo for="buttons/normal.vue" />
```

This will display a demo for an example located in `$dir/buttons/normal.vue`.

A demo looks like this:

<Demo for="popover-theme/clean" />
